Have you ever wonder what happens when you type a website’s name into your browser? Or how web pages get to your computer from other computers scattered around the world?
In this blog post I am going to talk about all the different technologies that work together to make something as simple as typing https://www.holbertonschool.com into your browser provide you with the documents available inside that website.

Let's begin talking about Domain name servers (DNS); What are they? and what do they do? I can start by telling you that without DNS the Internet would not be the way you know it today, without it you would have to remember things like 52.84.237.100 instead of an easier www.holbertonschool.com. What those numbers represent is the address of a computer containing files that compose a website called and IP address; here is where the magic begins. For your browser to know where in the world the website is located it will ask to the computer’s operating system. If the computer’s operating system does not know the answer to this location
your computer will ask the DNS resolver whose main job is to provide your computer with the right IP address where the website resides. The DNS resolver lives somewhere in your Internet Service Provider or ISP data center’s. If The DNS resolver does not know the correct IP because It has not seen it before it goes and asks The Root Domain Name Server who will not know the IP address of the website specifically but It will provide the resolver with the Top Level Domain IP address in this case the address for COM. The resolver will then ask the TLD if it knows the IP of the https://www.holbertonschool.com but COM will not know the answer of the whole address, But what COM does know is where holbertonschool.com resides and It will provide the resolver with a list of Authoritative Name Servers containing the IP of holbertonschool.com. The resolver will then go to one of the Authoritative Name Servers and that name server will provide the resolver with the right IP. The resolver will then return to the operating that said IP and the operating system will then pass it onto the browser. The browser will then go to the IP address. But wait! What is happening with the https at the beginning of the url? What is it?

HTTPS or Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure is a protocol for secure communication over a computer network. All the traffic going through this protocol is encrypted so even if a malicious agent tries to get the information that is being transferred said information is unreadable and almost impossible to decrypt.
Your computer and the server then start a process call a “Hand shake” in which they will first agree on how to encrypt the data between them. Your computer (The client) sends a “hello” message to the server, the information in that “hello” message contains the key exchange method, the way in which the data will be encrypted between the two servers called the cypher, the hash which is used to generate the Message Authentication Code sent along with the messages, The version of SSL that is being used and a random number which is used to create the master secret which is used during the remaining of the session to calculate the encryption keys. The server then send a response to the client agreeing to the specific key, cipher and hash method.
Secondly the server sends to the client a certificate containing details about itself and a key to encrypt the data. More specifically the certificate contains information about who owns the server, the time period of the validity of the certificate and the most important part a public key.

Then your computer agrees to start encrypting by sending a number of messages the first one being the Client exchange key used for both the client and the server to calculate the master secret code used for encrypting the communication. The next message sent from the client tells the server to use the cypher that was agreed upon during the “hello” messages and a messages informing that is finished with this series of messages. The server also sends a series of messages, firstly  agreeing to start encrypting with the specified cypher and a message informing that is done with this series of messages which is already encrypted.

HTTPS is possible thanks to SSL (Secure Socket Layer) which is the certificate that needs to be created to guarantee that the HTTPS connection are going through to a verified company. The way in which this verification process happens is the following. First a company asks to the Certificate Authority (CA) for an SSL certificate. The CA will look at the information of the company verify that it is true create a certificate and sign it cryptographically in a way in which the signature cannot be forged. The Certificate will then go back to the company who installs it on their web server. On the other hand your browser has seen the signature before and will compare it to the signature in the certificate of the website. In the case the signatures don't match or the browser thinks that it has been forged your browser will alert you about a possible insecure connection.

Now that you know what it takes for a website to be deliver to your computer safely I want to talk about the pieces of the architecture behind websites like https://www.holbertonschool.com.
The first thing I want to talk about is the firewall and what type of role it plays when trying to access a website.

The Firewall is a piece of software or hardware system that monitors and controls the incoming and outgoing traffic based on security rules established by a system administrator. There are different categories such as network firewalls or host based firewalls.

The next piece of architecture is a specialized server called Load Balancer. What a load balancer does is to distribute traffic among different servers so that the service does not get overwhelmed in the case of a heavily increased traffic to an specific site. The Load Balancer uses specific types of algorithms to determine to which server the incoming traffic must go; some popular load balancing algorithms are round robin, least connections,  random …

Once the traffic reaches the server it will interact with a piece of software called the web server.
What the web server does is to server static pages stored in the file system of the server itself, or make request to the application server for dynamic content. The application server takes in a request and process the data in that request sometimes needing to connect to a database to retrieve necessary data to form the content that the web server is requesting.
Now that you have a better understanding of all the pieces you can see the “magic” that is happening without your knowledge when you type something as simple as https://www.holbertonschool.com into your browser.
